\input texinfo
@comment %**start of header
@setfilename drupal-mode.info
@macro drupalmode {}
Drupal mode
@end macro
@macro version {}
0.5.0
@end macro
@settitle @drupalmode{} @version{}
@documentencoding utf-8
@comment %**end of header
@copying
This manual is for @drupalmode{} version @version{}
An advanced Emacs minor mode for Drupal development.

Copyright @copyright{} 2014
Arne J@o{}rgensen

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* @drupalmode{}: (drupal-mode).     An advanced Emacs minor mode for Drupal development.
@end direntry
@dircategory Programming
@direntry
* @drupalmode{}: (drupal-mode).     An advanced Emacs minor mode for Drupal development.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title @drupalmode{}
@subtitle An advanced Emacs minor mode for Drupal development.
@author Arne Jørgensen
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents



@node top
@top @drupalmode{}

Drupal mode is an advanced minor mode for developing in Drupal.

The approach taken is somewhat different from other attempts at creating
a Drupal mode.

This mode is a minor mode and can be applied to all files in a Drupal
project no matter what major mode they use - whether it be php-mode or
something else.

Besides giving access to general functionality in all modes
(i.e. clearing cache through Drush) it will also adapt it self to the
major mode to enable functionality only for that particular major mode
(i.e. adhering to Drupals PHP coding standards only in php-mode).

Drupal mode will not try to enforce specific ways of working with Emacs
on to you. Emacs can be extended in a million different ways and you
should use the parts and extensions that fit you and your working
habits.

If Drupal mode recognizes you are using an extension that it knows about
it will adapt the extension to be useful in Drupal mode and with
Drupal. I.e. it will recognize if you have loaded etags support and
setup your buffers to use the TAGS file in your DRUPAL_ROOT folder.

Drupal mode won't embed other libraries but will suggest some (see
below) and depend on a few through the packaging system (i.e. php-mode).

@c @node installation
@c @up Installation

The easiest way to install Drupal mode is probably to install it via the
ELPA archive at Marmalade.

ELPA (package.el) is part of Emacs 24. For Emacs 23 see Marmalade for
installation instructions.



@bye
