Drupal mode

Drupal mode is an advanced minor mode for developing in Drupal.

The approach taken is somewhat different from other attempts at creating
a Drupal mode.

This mode is a minor mode and can be applied to all files in a Drupal
project no matter what major mode they use - whether it be php-mode or
something else.

Besides giving access to general functionality in all modes (i.e.
clearing cache through Drush) it will also adapt it self to the major
mode to enable functionality only for that particular major mode (i.e.
adhering to Drupals PHP coding standards only in php-mode).

Drupal mode will try not to enforce specific ways of working with Emacs
on to you. Emacs can be extended in a million different ways and you
should use the parts and extensions that fit you and your working
habits.

If Drupal mode recognizes you using an extension that it knows about it
will adapt the extension to be useful in Drupal mode and with Drupal.
I.e. it will recognize if you have loaded etags support and setup your
buffers to use the TAGS file in your DRUPAL_ROOT folder.

Drupal mode won't embed other libraries but will suggest some (see
below) and depend on a few through the packaging system (i.e. php-mode).

Installation

The easiest way to install Drupal mode is probably to install it via the
ELPA archive at Marmalade.

ELPA (package.el) is part of Emacs 24. For Emacs 23 see Marmalade for
installation instructions.

Features of Drupal mode

Drupal Coding Standards

Drupal mode will make you write code that adheres to Drupals coding
standards.

It does this by:

Indentation

In php-mode code will be indented according to Drupals coding standards.
If not it is considered a bug!

Fixing line endings

If your files are not written with unix style line endings Drupal mode
will ask your to convert them to unix style line endings on saving
buffers.

This behavior can be customized be the variable
drupal-convert-line-ending.

The default is to ask if you want the file to be converted. By asking
you we hopefully won't trick you into making a commit in your version
control system consisting of a bunch of functionality changes with every
line also changed by a new line ending. If you have ever read 1000 of
commits/diffs you will appreciate this.

Delete trailing white space

In Drupal mode buffers we will enable Emacs' delete-trailing-whitespace.

This behavior can be customized be the variable
drupal-delete-trailing-whitespace.

Search documentation

You can search Drupal documentation for the symbol at point by issuing
C-c d f or M-x drupal-search-documentation or from the Drupal menu
entry.

Files that are part of a Drupal project will try to identify the used
version of Drupal core and look up the documentation for the
corresponding version at http://api.drupal.org.

If the symbol at point is believed to be a drush command the
documentation will be looked up at http://api.drush.org instead. If
Drush is installed it will identify the version of Drush and look up the
documentation for that version.

You can change where to search for documentation be customizing
drupal-search-url (besides api.drupal.org it also has a predefined
setting for api.drupalcontrib.org) and drupal-drush-search-url.

Clearing all caches

If Drush is installed you can issue a drush cc all from within Emacs by
issuing C-c d c or M-x drupal-drush-cache-clear or from the Drupal menu
entry.

Drush editing minor mode

If the buffer you visit is believe to be a Drush command (we think it is
its name or path contains "drush") we will also enter a Drush minor
mode.

There is currently no functionality connected to drupal-drush-mode.

Emacs modes and extensions that Drupal mode will enhance

etags

If you have generated a TAGS file in your DRUPAL_ROOT folder Drupal mode
will setup all buffers running drupal-mode to set tags-file-name to
point to that TAGS file.

Etags is a builtin part of Emacs.

GNU Globals / gtags

If you load GNU Globals / gtags support in Emacs then Drupal mode will
set gtags-rootdir to your DRUPAL_ROOT.

ispell

If ispell.el is loaded in Emacs then Drupal mode will set the language
of your Drupal mode buffers to american as stated in Drupals coding
standards.

ispell.el is a builtin part of Emacs. A external program must be
installed to run the actual spell checking, i.e. ispell, aspell, or
hunspell.

flymake-phpcs

If support for flymake-phpcs.el is loaded in emacs and you have
installed Drupal Code Sniffer rules then Drupal mode will enable
flymake-phpcs under php-mode.

For this to work you need:

-   PHP CodeSniffer
-   flymake-phpcs.el
-   Drupal Code Sniffer rules

Making all of them work together can be a bit of a puzzle. Especially
notice the need to run phpcs through a wrapper you get with
flymake-phpcs.el.

Other takes on a Drupal mode

There are quite a few attempts at writing a Drupal mode out in the wild:

-   Search Github for drupal-mode
-   At drupal.org:
    -   http://drupal.org/sandbox/bartlantz/1405156
    -   http://drupal.org/project/emacs

All of them more or less based on Configuring Emacs.

Development of Drupal mode

Drupal mode is actively developed at GitHub. Feature requests, ideas,
bug reports, and pull request are more that welcome!
